React Typescript Redux (#1239)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2022-08-08-react-redux.md

---
layout: blog_post

> title: Using Redux with React

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App
```

Scores better on title analyzer. We might play with this a bit more after the article is written

author: gabi-dombrowski
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: ""

> tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, usecontext, usestate, authentication]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, authentication]
```

tweets:
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
image:
type: conversion

> canonical: https://auth0.com/blog/using-redux-with-react/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
canonical:
```

---

There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) that will allow you to set local state for a component.

> For more complex scenarios where you might need a single source of truth that shared across large sections of your application and is frequently changing, you might want to consider using a more robust state management library.

Reviewer: I was hoping we'd use the state management for authentication/user profile info. Will this tut cover those scenarios?

Author: Yes! That's the part that's missing that I already have in my demo app but need to write out in the tutorial.

> Let's compare when to use the useState hook vs. React Context vs. a more global state management solution like one of the most popular ones, [Redux](https://redux.js.org/).

Reviewer: We should add a pre-req section here (such as Node version, or anything else you'll expect)

> ## Initial Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the React app
```

I'll make suggestions for the headings (that we can def iterate on as you build out the sections) in order to reinforce the keywords we expect people to search on

We'll get started with the built-in React template for [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app) that uses Redux and Typescript. This includes the recommended Redux Toolkit and Redux's integration with React components.

> 1. First, run:

Reviewer: I like the way you broke out the installation steps here! 🤩

```bash

> npx create-react-app <YOUR_APP_NAME> --template redux-typescript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx create-react-app@5.0 okta-react-redux --template redux-typescript
```

Suggested name, but feel free to go with something else. IMO it'll be easier for people to have a suggested name.

Also, I try to add versions to all npm (and npx) commands. Does adding the version here make sense or do you disagree with specifying a version for `create-react-app` (there might be reasons against this in the community, so getting your feel on it).

Author: Considering the simplicity of the app, I would prefer the tutorial stand up an app that is whatever latest stable version is available.

The only dependencies are node and npm versioning, which I'm good with saying something in the Prerequisites section like:

```As of the time of this publication, Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6 are required for Create React App. You can check  for the latest required versions at https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html.```

Think that sounds good?

Reviewer: I'm good with adding info to prereqs. If you can also state the version of React that it created (same with all the other deps added) that will help set expectations.

The problem we've seen is that while the app itself is simple, there's compatibility issues with the Okta libs with new versions of different frameworks. We've had comments on posts where people run into problems because of it. We can try without a version here (as long as there's some statement about which version of React/create-react-app this all was tested on) and address any comments should they arise. 

Does that sound ok to you?

Author: Yup, that works!

```

2. Then we'll add the Redux core by running:
```bash

> npm add redux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm add redux@4.2
```

(or whatever version is correct. I also didn't test adding the version to this command so hopefully it works)

```

3. Redux provides its own types, but we'll want to add our `react-redux` types since we're using Typescript:
```bash

> npm add -D @types/react-redux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm add -D @types/react-redux@7.1
```

```

> **NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [Chrome React DevTools Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).

Reviewer: This might be good to add to the pre-reqs when you're ready to build that out.

4. We'll also need routing (and routing types) for our app:
```bash
npm install react-router-dom@5

> npm add -D @types/react-router-dom

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm add -D @types/react-router-dom@5.3
```

```

5. To start your app, run:
```bash
npm start
```

> ## How does Redux work?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How Redux works
```
Or "How Redux works behind the scenes". Our writing guide prefers we avoid question section headers.

To update state using Redux, an action is dispatched and the store then uses the root reducer to calculate a new state as compared to the old state, which then notifies the proper subscribers of the update so that the UI can properly be updated.

> A typical redux workflow goes like this:

Reviewer: This will be very helpful!

1. xyz
2. abc

> ### Terms

Reviewer: We might want to consider making this bold and maybe creating a table with terms or bullet points underneath. I think a H3 still generates keywords (🤷🏼), so another option is to use H3 and add keywords to it. But we can settle which way to go for the layout when more complete.

Author: Let me know here what you think might work.

####[Action Creators](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)

Action Creators can be used to dynamically create actions. NOT IN APP

####[Reducers](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)

A Reducer returns the proper current state with applicable changes as compared to the previous state when it's passed a new state. They work similarly to the Array.reduce method.

####[Redux Store](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/fundamentals/part-4-store#redux-store)

The current live state for your app lives in the Redux Store.

####[Selectors](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#selectors)

A selector returns a piece of the live Redux state as stored in the live Redux store.

####[Dispatch](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#dispatch)

A Dispatch is a method with triggers an action that in turn updates the Redux store.

**NOTE:** The built-in Redux template we used includes a great counter example of how Redux works. You can also take a look at [Redux's explanation of the counter example](https://redux.js.org/introduction/examples/).

> ## Okta Authentication Setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add authentication using OAuth2 and OIDC
```

For this demo app, we'll be using [Okta's SPA redirect model](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/sign-into-spa-redirect/react/main/) to authenticate and fetch user info.

> 1. First, install the CLI:

Reviewer: You should be able to remove the instructions to install the CLI. We have a snippet for this you can use. Link includes how-to, configs, and what the snippet renders.

https://github.com/oktadev/okta-blog#use-the-okta-cli-to-register-your-app

---
layout: blog_post
title: Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App
author: gabi-dombrowski
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: ""
tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, authentication]
tweets:
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
image:
type: conversion
canonical:
---

There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) that will allow you to set local state for a component.

For more complex scenarios where you might need a single source of truth that is shared across large sections of your application and is frequently changing, you might want to consider using a more robust state management library.

> Our demo app will show use cases for all three. Let's compare when to use the useState hook vs. React Context vs. a more global state management solution like one of the most popular ones, [Redux](https://redux.js.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our demo app will show use cases for all three. Let's compare when to use the useState hook vs. React Context vs. a more global state management solution like one of the most popular ones, [Redux](https://redux.js.org/).

This walkthrough will get you started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provides examples on when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. 
```

IMO this sentence currently at the end of the post brought it all together for me in terms of what I was doing, what I will learn, and helped set my expectations. It's it's really a **great** hook for reading the post, so let's bring it up to the top of the post.

## Prerequisites

As of the time of this publication, Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6 are required for Create React App. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).

**NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [Chrome React DevTools Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).

> ## Create the React app

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create the React app using TypeScript
```

npm add -D @types/react-router-dom@5.3
```

5. To start your app, run:
```bash
npm start
```

## How Redux works

To update state using Redux, an action is dispatched and the store then uses the root reducer to calculate a new state as compared to the old state, which then notifies the proper subscribers of the update so that the UI can properly be updated.

After the UI for your application is initially rendered using an initial global Redux store created using the root reducer, a typical redux workflow goes like this:

1. An event in the UI such as a user button interaction happens in your app which triggers an action.
2. The action is then dispatched to the store and an event handler that handles the needed logic makes the changes to your global state.
3. The store notifies subscribed parts in the UI that there has been an update.
4. Those subscribed parts then check to see if a re-render is needed to update whatever needs updating in the UI.

**NOTE:** The built-in Redux template we used includes a great counter example of how Redux works. You can take a closer look at [Redux's explanation of the counter example](https://redux.js.org/introduction/examples/).

> ### Useful Terms

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Useful terms to know when working with Redux
```

An Action is an JS object with a type and a payload. It describes an actionable interaction within your application, and typically is named something like `createUser` or `addToDo`.

**[Action Creators](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)**

Action Creators can be used to dynamically create actions. NOT IN APP

**[Reducers](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#reducers)**

A Reducer returns the proper current state with applicable changes as compared to the previous state when it's passed a new state. They work similarly to the Array.reduce method.

**[Redux Store](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/fundamentals/part-4-store#redux-store)**

The current live state for your app lives in the Redux Store.

**[Selectors](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#selectors)**

A selector returns a piece of the live Redux state as stored in the live Redux store.

**[Dispatch](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-1-overview-concepts#dispatch)**

A Dispatch is a method with triggers an action that in turn updates the Redux store.

> ## Add authentication using OAuth2 and OIDC

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add authentication using OAuth2 and OpenID Connect (OIDC)
```

For this demo app, we'll be using [Okta's SPA redirect model](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/sign-into-spa-redirect/react/main/) to authenticate and fetch user info.

> {% include setup/cli.md type="spa" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include setup/cli.md type="spa" framework="React" loginRedirectUri="http://localhost:3000/login/callback" %}
```
It looks like you're using port 3000 (based on the `.env` file below). Please feel free to update if I'm mistaken.

> {% include setup/cli.md type="spa" %}

Reviewer: It looks like you're missing the npm commands to add the Okta SDKs to the project. Maybe it fell off during the other fixes because I remember seeing them before. :)

> ## Application Setup with State Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## TypeScript React application setup with Redux state management
```

> ## Setup Environment Variables

Reviewer: Do you think this header is needed? If so, we can think of some other header titles, but if you don't feel strongly, I might suggest removing since the keywords won't be valuable here

Author: Don't think it's needed, remove it.

1. Create a `.env` file to your root directory and add the following:
```bash

> REACT_APP_OKTA_ISSUER=https://<YOUR_OKTA_DOMAIN>/oauth2/default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REACT_APP_OKTA_ISSUER=https://{yourOktaDomain}/oauth2/default
```

> REACT_APP_OKTA_CLIENTID=<YOUR_CLIENT_ID>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
REACT_APP_OKTA_CLIENTID={yourOktaClientId}
```

REACT_APP_OKTA_BASE_REDIRECT_URI=http://localhost:3000
```

**NOTE:** Remember to not include your `.env` file in any version control for security reasons.

> ## Add Okta authentication, create routes, and use environment variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add authentication and create routes
```

1. Modify the existing `App.tsx` file:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% raw %}
```
Maybe this is snippet will render the variable content in HTML of the TSX codeblock correctly?

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

import "./App.css";
import { OktaAuth, toRelativeUrl } from "@okta/okta-auth-js";
import { BrowserRouter as Router, Route } from "react-router-dom";
import { LoginCallback, Security } from "@okta/okta-react";
import Home from "./components/home";
import { useCallback } from "react";

const oktaAuth = new OktaAuth({
  issuer: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_ISSUER,
  clientId: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_CLIENTID,
  redirectUri: process.env.REACT_APP_OKTA_BASE_REDIRECT_URI + "/login/callback",
});

function App() {
  const restoreOriginalUri = useCallback(
    async (_oktaAuth: OktaAuth, originalUri: string) => {
      window.location.replace(
        toRelativeUrl(originalUri || "/", window.location.origin)
      );
    },
    []
  );

  return (
    <Router>
      <Security oktaAuth={oktaAuth} restoreOriginalUri={restoreOriginalUri}>
        <Route path="/" exact={true} component={Home} />
        <Route path="/login/callback" component={LoginCallback} />
      </Security>
    </Router>
  );
}

export default App;
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% endraw %}
```

## Add Initial State, Create Redux Slice, and Create Selector

1. Create a `src/redux-state` directory:
```bash
mkdir src/redux-state
```

2. Add a `userProfileSlice.tsx` file in the created `redux-state` directory with the following:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

import { createSlice } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";
import { RootState } from "../app/store";

export interface IUserProfile {
  email: string;
  given_name: string;
  family_name: string;
}

const initialState: IUserProfile = {
  email: "",
  given_name: "",
  family_name: "",
};

export const userProfileSlice = createSlice({
  name: "userProfile",
  initialState,
  reducers: {
    setUserProfile: (state, action) => {
      return {
        email: action.payload.payload.email,
        given_name: action.payload.payload.given_name,
        family_name: action.payload.payload.family_name,
      };
    },
  },
});

export const selectUserProfile = (state: RootState): IUserProfile =>
  state.userProfile;

export const { setUserProfile } = userProfileSlice.actions;
export default userProfileSlice.reducer;
```

We'll add the `email`, `given_name`, and `family_name` to the global store here. This will be returned from a built-in method in the `oktaAuth` module to fetch user info that we will use later.

> 3. In the `src/app/store.ts` file, add the created Redux slice to the Redux store:

Reviewer: This is rendering as "1." Maybe because of extra vertical whitespace somewhere?

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```ts
```

import { configureStore, ThunkAction, Action } from "@reduxjs/toolkit";
import counterReducer from "../features/counter/counterSlice";
import userProfileReducer from "../redux-state/userProfileSlice";

export const store = configureStore({
  reducer: {
    counter: counterReducer,
    userProfile: userProfileReducer,
  },
});

export type AppDispatch = typeof store.dispatch;
export type RootState = ReturnType<typeof store.getState>;
export type AppThunk<ReturnType = void> = ThunkAction<
  ReturnType,
  RootState,
  unknown,
  Action<string>
>;
```

> ## Create Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Show user profile information using state management
```
(is that accurate? trying to get "user profile" keywords in :) )

1. Create a `src/components` directory:
```bash
mkdir src/components
```

2. In the `src/components` directory, add the following files:

#### home.tsx

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```
You may need that `raw` snip.

            locale: userInfo.locale,
            preferred_username: userInfo.preferred_username,
          });
        })
        .catch((err) => {
          console.error(err);
        });
    }
  }, [authState?.isAuthenticated, dispatch, oktaAuth]);

  return (authState?.isAuthenticated && userProfileExtra) ? (
    <UserContext.Provider value={userProfileExtra}>
      <Dashboard />
    </UserContext.Provider>
  ) : (
    <div className="section-wrapper">
      <div className="title">Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App</div>
      <button className="button" onClick={login}>
        Login
      </button>
    </div>
  );
}
```

Here we use React's [useEffect hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-effect.html) to set the global user state we set up earlier using `setUserProfile` and the local user state we set up in this file with [useState](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-state.html).

Once the user is authenticated, we're using the [getUser method](https://github.com/okta/okta-auth-js#getuser) that is built into `oktaAuth` to fetch the user profile information. If the user is not yet authenticated, we render the login page instead.

#### dashboard.tsx

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

Reviewer: May need `raw` snip

  const [isExpanded, setIsExpanded] = useState(false);

  const logout = async () => oktaAuth.signOut();

  return (
    <div className="section-wrapper">
      <div className="title">Dashboard</div>
      <div className="profile-greeting">{`Hi ${userProfile.given_name}!`}</div>
      <div className="profile-more-wrapper">
        {isExpanded && (
          <>
            <UserProfile />
            <UserProfileExtra />
          </>
        )}
      </div>
      {
        <div
          className="profile-toggle"
          onClick={() => setIsExpanded(!isExpanded)}
        >
          {isExpanded ? "Show less" : "Show more"}
        </div>
      }
      <div>
        <button className="button" onClick={logout}>
          Logout
        </button>
      </div>
    </div>
  );
}
```

In this file, we're using a Redux selector to get the current state for `userProfile` to then render those values in our component.

We're also setting an `isExpandable` property that toggles whether or not additional user profile information is hidden or shown. This is another example of how to use local state using the `useState` hook. 

#### userProfile.tsx

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```tsx
```

import { useSelector } from "react-redux";
import { selectUserProfile } from "../redux-state/userProfileSlice";
import "../App.css";

export default function UserProfile() {
  const userProfile = useSelector(selectUserProfile);

  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <span>Email: </span>
        {userProfile.email}
      </div>
      <div>
        <span>Last name: </span>
        {userProfile.family_name}
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

In this file, we are using the Redux selector we created prior to get the current state for the state slice that includes the user profile information we set earlier.

#### userProfileExtra.tsx

> ``` bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``` tsx
```

May require raw snippet

import "../App.css";
import { useContext } from "react";
import { UserContext } from "./home";

export default function UserProfileExtra() {
  const userProfileExtra = useContext(UserContext);

  return (
    <>
      <div>
        <span>Username: </span>
        {userProfileExtra.preferred_username}
      </div>
      <div>
        <span>Locale: </span>
        {userProfileExtra.locale}
      </div>
    </>
  );
}
```

Here, another way to manage state is demonstrated. This time, React's built-in `useContext` hook is used to get what we set prior in the `UserContext` we created with React's `createContext` method.

**NOTE:** The following custom styling has also been added to `src/App.css` in the demo repository.

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```css
```

  color: #6200ee;
}

.profile-more-wrapper {
  height: 360px;
  display: flex;
  flex-direction: column;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}

.profile-more-wrapper > div {
  padding: 16px;
}

.profile-more-wrapper span {
  font-size: 20px;
  font-weight: 500;
}
```

Our app is now complete! Next we'll run it to log a user in and render our applicable states.

## Running the App

To start the app, run `npm start`.

After your app starts and you've clicked `login` on the home screen, you'll be redirected to the Okta-hosted sign-in page. Here, enter your user credentials. Once your user is authenticated, the dashboard component we created will render.

{% img blog/react-redux/dashboard.png alt:"Screenshot of dashboard." width:"600" %}{: .center-image }

If you recall, the value for the user's `given_name` is part of the Redux slice from our created selector `selectUserProfile`. Clicking `Show more` or `Show less` toggles our local state for `isExpanded` in the dashboard component to show or hide additional user profile info, which is a mix of other values from the `userProfileSlice` and additional values from the `UserContext` we created.

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Learn more about authentication, React, and Redux
```

> This walkthrough will get you started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provides examples on when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. As you scale your apps, you might find that a mix of all three solutions is the right choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This post walked you through getting started with a basic setup using Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. It provided examples on when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. As you scale your apps, you might find that a mix of all three solutions is the right choice.
```

I bet Havi will have suggestions on how to clean this up and tie it in well with the beginning of the post.

Author: @alisaduncan How about this?
```suggestion
In this post, we used Okta's redirect model to manage authenticated state and user profile information within a React app. We also saw examples on when to use Redux, local state using React's `useState` hook, or React Context. As you scale your apps, you might find that a mix of all three solutions is the right choice.
```

Author: I added the change above, but let me know if you think we need to refine it further.

Reviewer: I like it! (Although I still defer to Havi for final editorial changes). 😄

> You may also want to go further to handle more complex state management logic or add more customizations to your apps. The following links should help with potential next steps.

Reviewer: Maybe add links to other React blog posts on the Okta dev blog? Some suggestions I have are (feel free to substitute if you have others you like better, especially if any of these feel like they're too out of date)

```markdown
* [A Developer's Guide to Session Management in React](/blog/2021/06/16/session-mgmt-react)
* [Build a Secure React Application with JWTs and Redux](/blog/2019/08/12/build-secure-react-application-redux-jwt)
* [Build a React App with Styled Components](/blog/2020/03/16/react-styled-components)
```

Author: Added!

> **[Custom Sign-In Widget](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/custom-widget/main/)**

Reviewer: I recommend removing

> Add custom styled to your sign in widget.

Reviewer: I recommend removing

**[Custom URL Domain](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/custom-url-domain/main/)**

Use a custom URL for the Okta sign in widget.

**[Open ID Connect](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/build-sso-integration/openidconnect/main/)**

Set up Single Sign-On for your Okta integrated app.

**[Customize Tokens Returned From Okta](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/customize-tokens-returned-from-okta/main/)**

Add custom claims to your user access tokens that add custom information or attributes stored in a user profile.

**[Redux Async Logic](https://redux.js.org/tutorials/essentials/part-5-async-logic)**

Use async logic in Redux with [Redux "thunk" middleware](https://github.com/reduxjs/redux-thunk) for handling things like login, data fetching, and handling loading state.

**[Redux Learning Resources](https://redux.js.org/introduction/learning-resources)**

> Further resources to learn Redux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Further resources to learn Redux.

Be sure you follow us on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/oktadev) and subscribe to our [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/oktadev) channel. Please comment below if you have any questions or want to share what tutorial you'd like to see next.
```
(Or however you want to phrase this)

For more complex scenarios where you might need a single source of truth that is shared across large sections of your application and is frequently changing, you might want to consider using a more robust state management library.

Our demo app will show use cases for all three. Let's compare when to use the useState hook vs. React Context vs. a more global state management solution like one of the most popular ones, [Redux](https://redux.js.org/).

## Prerequisites

As of the time of this publication, Node >= 14.0.0 and npm >= 5.6 are required for Create React App. You can check for the latest required versions at [https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html](https://reactjs.org/docs/create-a-new-react-app.html).

**NOTE:** Redux also recommends you install the [Chrome React DevTools Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include toc.md %}
```

---
layout: blog_post
title: Use Redux to Manage Authenticated State in a React App
author: gabi-dombrowski
by: contractor
communities: [javascript]
description: ""
tags: [javascript, typescript, react, redux, authentication]
tweets:
  - ""
  - ""
  - ""
image:
type: conversion
canonical:
---

There are a myriad of state management options available for React. React provides the option of using the built-in [Context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) for when you have a nested tree of components that share a state. There is also a built-in [useState hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html) that will allow you to set local state for a component.

For more complex scenarios where you might need a single source of truth that shared across large sections of your application and is frequently changing, you might want to consider using a more robust state management library.

Our demo app will utilize all three, needing authentication checks and user profile information.

Let's compare when to use the useState hook vs. React Context vs. a more global state management solution like one of the most popular ones, [Redux](https://redux.js.org/).

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Prerequisites**
```
